% News

#### News

**25-29 March 2019**: Live demos of POETS applications to be presented at the
DATE'2019 conference in Florence, Italy
([Abstract](/download/poets-date-2019-demo-abstract.pdf))

We are presenting live demos of three applications that have been accelerated
through POETS: (1) large-scale network analysis, (2) heat dissipation
simulation and (3) particle simulation. In each demo, we'll present a realtime
visualization of the application as it runs on a remote POETS prototype
machine deployed at Cambridge University. We invite DATE delegates to visit
our demo stand and join us for a discussion of the POETS technology
underpinning these accelerated applications.

---

**20 September 2018**: Talk on Distributed Drug Discovery on POETS at Uppsala
University, Sweden
([Abstract](http://www.it.uu.se/research/computer_systems/seminars/180920))

Andrey Mokhov, the lead POETS investigator at Newcastle, gave a talk on the
distributed drug discovery application the POETS team is developing in
collaboration with our industrial partner e-Therapeutics. The talk introduced
the architecture and discussed ways to accelerate average shortest path
computations on large protein interactomes, as well as using distributed
genetic algorithms to find promising drug candidates. Andrey delivered the
same talk at KU Leuven, Belgium on the 17th of December 218.

---

**24 July 2018**: Drug discovery hardware accelerator based on POETS
technology wins the Xilinx Open Hardware 2018 Competition
([List of Finalists](http://www.openhw.eu/2018-finalists.html))
([Winning Video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Z2w0hiHY3Us))

PhD students Alessandro de Gennaro and Sergey Mileiko from Newcastle
University won the first prize (PhD category) in the Xilinx Open Hardware 2018
competition. Alessandro and Sergey submitted a hardware accelerator to speed
up network analysis by up to 2505x compared to software running on desktop
computers, giving a significant boost to applications such as computational
drug discovery that rely on analyzing large protein interactome networks. As
part of their submission, the winning team prepared a video to describe the
accelerator and its target application (link in the header).

---

**13-15 June 2018**: Two talks on POETS at the Adaptive Many-Core Architectures and
Systems workshop in York, UK
([Abstract 1](/download/poets-many-core-workshop-2018-abstract-a.pdf))
([Abstract 2](/download/poets-many-core-workshop-2018-abstract-b.pdf))

Ghaith Tarawneh (Newcastle University) and Jonathan Beaumont (Imperial College
London) from the POETS team gave two talks on the POETS architecture and its
programming models. The talks presented POETS to researchers in the many-core
communities and stimulated discussions of potential applications, as well as
relationship to other massively-parallel architectures.

---

**19-23 March 2018**: Newcastle team and e-Therapeutics exhibit the drug
discovery accelerator at the DATE'2018 conference in Dresden, Germany
([Abstract](/download/poets-date-2018-demo-abstract.pdf))

We are presenting an FPGA accelerator for network analysis based on a minified
version of POETS at DATE'2018 in Dresden, Germany. The accelerator consists of
a single FPGA chip and can perform average shortest path computations on a
large protein-protein interaction network (a protein interactome) consisting
of 3487 nodes (proteins) and 58,000 edges (interactions). The simplicity of
core/message definitions and immense degree of parallelism allows the
accelerator to achieve speed ups of up to 2505x compared to a software
implementation. Speeding up network analysis (protein interaction networks in
particular) by this amount has a significant impact on application domains
such as computational drug discovery where our industrial partner
e-Therapeutics rely heavily on network analytics to identify candidate drugs.



---

<p>**5-6 February 2018**: Newcastle and Imperial College researchers visit
e-Therapeutics.</p>

---

<p>**1 November 2017**: POETS all-hands meeting in Southampton.</p>

<p>**19-20 April 2017**: Advisory Board and POETS all-hands meeting in Newcastle.</p>

<p>**14 June 2016:** The project has started with a kick-off meeting in Cambridge.</p>
